Add a new concept page for service accounts (#38289)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts.md

---
title: Service Accounts
description: >
  Learn about the Kubernetes ServiceAccount object.
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This page introduces the ServiceAccount object in Kubernetes, providing
information about how service accounts work, use cases, limitations,
alternatives, and links to resources for additional guidance.

<!-- body -->

## What are service accounts?

A service account is a type of non-human account that, in Kubernetes, provides

> an identity for the processes that run in Pods. Pods can use service accounts

Reviewer: processes in pods are the primary use, but are not the only one... service account credentials can be obtained and used outside of pods as well (notably, the kubernetes controller manager uses a distinct service account for every controller loop)

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: Not sure how this was resolved yet - sorry. We can suggest wording if that'll help.

Author: would something like this work?

```suggestion
an identity for cluster processes, such as Pods and controllers, to use when talking to the API server
```

Reviewer 2: > ```markdown
> A service account is a type of non-human account that, in Kubernetes, provides
> an identity for cluster processes, such as Pods and controllers, to use when talking to the API server
> to make calls to the Kubernetes API server. Service accounts exist as
> ```

It's not quite that. You can also use a ServiceAccount for things other than authenticating to the API server,
so we need to frame this authn piece as only one part of the picture.

For example, you can use a ServiceAccount to define which image pull secrets a Pod can use. ServiceAccounts are really there to define an identity (≅ authentication principal) for _sets_ of Pods. Those sets of Pods might be the same as an app component, or:
- one app might use several different ServiceAccounts, for different things
- several apps might all use the same ServiceAccount

Reviewer 2: When Pods use a ServiceAccount, the Pods and the ServiceAccount have to be in the same namespace (this isn't implemented as a check, it's just - by design -  the only way the API lets you specify it).

to make calls to the Kubernetes API server. Service accounts exist as
ServiceAccount objects in the API server. Service accounts have the following
properties:

*  **Namespaced:** Each service account is bound to a Kubernetes
   {{<glossary_tooltip text="namespace" term_id="namespace">}}. Every namespace

>    gets a `default` ServiceAccount upon creation.

Reviewer: is it clear that `default` is the actual name of the service account?

Author: Rephrased

*  **Lightweight:** Service accounts exist in the cluster and use the structure
   defined in the Kubernetes API. You can quickly create service accounts to
   enable specific tasks.

*  **Portable:** A configuration bundle for a complex containerized workload
   might include service account definitions for the system's components. The
   lightweight nature of service accounts and the namespaced identities make
   the configurations portable.

Service accounts are different from user accounts, which are authenticated

> human users in the cluster. User accounts don't exist in the Kubernetes API
> server; instead, the API server treats user identities as opaque data. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
human users in the cluster. User accounts are not represented as Kubernetes API
objects; instead, the API server treats user identities as opaque data. You can
```

Author: Done

authenticate as a user account using multiple methods.

{{< table caption="Comparison between service accounts and users" >}}

| Description | ServiceAccount | User or group |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Location | Kubernetes API (ServiceAccount object) | External |
| Scope | Namespace | Cluster |
| Access control | Kubernetes RBAC or other [authorization mechanisms](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#authorization-modules) | Kubernetes RBAC or other identity and access management mechanisms |
| Intended use | Pods | People |

{{< /table >}}

### Default service accounts

When you create a cluster, Kubernetes automatically creates a ServiceAccount
object named `default` for every namespace in your cluster. The `default`

> service accounts in each namespace get no permissions other than the

Reviewer: they can be given other permissions, but get none by default:

```suggestion
service accounts in each namespace get no permissions by default other than the
```

Author: Done

[default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

> that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated accounts. If you delete the default

Author: Done

ServiceAccount object in a namespace, the {{<glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane">}}
replaces it with a new one.

If you deploy a Pod in a namespace, and you don't manually assign a
ServiceAccount object to the Pod, Kubernetes assigns the `default` service
account for that namespace to the Pod. You can change this behavior by setting

> the `automountServiceAccountToken` field in your Pod specification to `false`.

Reviewer: this isn't quite accurate... the `default` service account still gets assigned even when `autoMountServiceAccountToken` is false, but no token is auto-mounted.

Author: Done

Author: Actually done, idk where these changes disappeared to

> the `automountServiceAccountToken` field in your Pod specification to `false`.

Author: Updated by saying how you might not specify a service account for the Pod in line 65-66

## Use cases for Kubernetes service accounts

As a general guideline, you can use service accounts to provide identities in
the following scenarios:

* Your Pods need to communicate with the Kubernetes API server, for example in
  situations such as the following:
  *  Providing read-only access to sensitive information stored in Secrets.
  *  Granting [cross-namespace access](TODO), such as allowing a Pod in namespace
     `example` to read, list, and watch for Lease objects in the
     `kube-node-lease` namespace.
* Your Pods need to communicate with an external service. For example,
  [Authenticating to a private image registry using an `imagePullSecret`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#add-imagepullsecrets-to-a-service-account).
* An external service needs to communicate with the Kubernetes API server. For

>   example, authenticating to the cluster as part of a CI/CD pipeline.

Reviewer 3: Is it better if we have some references for the external service use cases? we can make a section of it such as `Use ServiceAccount credentials from external`. It will be better to understand the things

Author: We can do that, but from what I see right now we only have one defined use case. Maybe after we publish this you'd be willing to open a new issue or PR with more to add?

Reviewer 3: I would like to know that use case, could you please refer that link to me.

Reviewer 3: Are you talking about **authenticating to the cluster as part of a CI/CD pipeline**?

Author: Yeah @Shubham82 that's the only example I have for this PR. We can always expand with more examples down the line though

Reviewer 3: > We can always expand with more examples down the line though

Sure
Thanks, @shannonxtreme for this.

## How to use service accounts

To use a Kubernetes service account, you do the following:

> 1. Create the ServiceAccount object in the Kubernetes API using a Kubernetes

Author: Done

   client like `kubectl` or a manifest that defines the object.
1. Grant permissions to the ServiceAccount object using an authorization
   mechanism such as RBAC.
1. Assign the ServiceAccount object to Pods during Pod creation.

For instructions, refer to
[Configure Service Accounts for Pods](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).

### Grant permissions to a ServiceAccount

You can use the built-in Kubernetes
[role-based access control (RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
mechanism to grant the minimum permissions required by each service account.
You create a *role*, which grants access, and then *bind* the role to your
ServiceAccount. RBAC lets you define a minimum set of permissions so that the
service account permissions follow the principle of least privilege. Pods that
use that service account don't get more permissions than are required to
function correctly.

> #### Cross-namespace access using a ServiceAccount

Author: I will add anchors to all, thanks for the reminder

You can use RBAC to allow service accounts in one namespace to perform actions
on resources in a different namespace in the cluster. For example, consider a
scenario where you have a service account and Pod in the `dev` namespace and

> you want your Pod to see Jobs running in the `batch` namespace. You could

Reviewer: nit: to avoid confusion, maybe use a different example name than the API group for jobs?

```suggestion
you want your Pod to see Jobs running in the `maintenance` namespace. You could
```

> create a Role object that grants permissions to list Job objects. Then,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a Role object in the `maintenance` namespace that grants permissions to list Job objects. Then,
```

Author: Ignore the last comment, the Codespaces review thing took me in reverse order

you'd create a RoleBinding object in the `batch` namespace to bind the Role

> to the ServiceAccount object. Now, Pods in the `dev` namespace can list Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the ServiceAccount object in the `dev` namespace. Now, Pods in the `dev` namespace can list Job
```

objects in the `batch` namespace using that service account.

### Use ServiceAccount credentials from a Pod

To assign a service account to a Pod, you provide the Pod with the credentials

> for the service account, which the Pod can then use to authenticate with the

Reviewer: from a user-perspective, you assign a service account to a pod by setting `spec.serviceAccountName`; the system does the injection (using one of the following methods) automatically. I probably wouldn't mention any of the specific methods this in this section... it's more relevant in a "Use ServiceAccount credentials outside a Pod" section

Author: Ah I see. https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#manually-create-an-api-token-for-a-serviceaccount cleared it up a bit. So depending on k8s version, the method by which Kubernetes gets SA credentials is different? In versions earlier than 1.22, tokens were autogenerated for Secret-based mounting. In 1.22 and later, Kubernetes gets the tokens using TokenRequest and mounts as projected volumes. When would you use those manually then? tokenrequest I understand, to get SA credentials in an application, but what about manually mounting as a projected volume? 

Sorry @liggitt I dunno if my response is very coherent

Reviewer: > I'd still need to do something in my Pod spec to tell Kubernetes that I want a projected volume, for example, right?

No, auto-injection of a token for the pod's service account silently switched mechanisms from secret-based to projected-volume-based in ~1.21/1.22.

> Or is it automatic based on version and the only thing I need to set is the ServiceAccount name?

Yeah, pod authors just set the spec.serviceAccountName, API server admission handles the rest of the volume setup.

> When would you use those manually then? tokenrequest I understand, to get SA credentials in an application, but what about manually mounting as a projected volume?

If you want a service account token mounted at a non-standard location, or with an audience other than the kube-apiserver, you would manually set up a projected token mount. That would let you get a token you could present to some other audience (for example, scenarios mentioned in https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/issues/4144#issuecomment-930087333)

Author: I'll fiddle with this today, this is the last bit I think is needed to get this PR in good order

Kubernetes API server. You can provide a Pod with credentials in the following
ways:

*   [TokenRequest API](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/)
    (recommended): Request a short-lived service account token using your
    *application code*. The token expires automatically and can rotate upon
    expiration.
*   [Token Volume Projection](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection)
    (recommended): In Kubernetes v1.20 and later, use the Pod specification to
    tell the kubelet to add the service account token to the Pod as a
    *projected volume*. Projected tokens expire automatically, and the kubelet
    rotates the token before it expires.
*   [Service Account Token Secrets](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#manually-create-a-service-account-api-token)
    (not recommended): You can mount service account tokens as Kubernetes
    Secrets in Pods. These tokens don't expire and don't rotate. This method
    is not recommended, especially at scale, because of the risks associated

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: we can mention the note for `manually created secret-based tokens` about the depreciation plan. IMO  there is no current plan to deprecate manually created secret-based tokens. so can we mention this thing also?

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Author: Done

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Author: I'm confused here Shubham, what do you mean by the deprecation plan?

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Author: @tengqm would a summarized version of the note in https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#manually-create-an-api-token-for-a-serviceaccount be good here?

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: > I'm confused here Shubham, what do you mean by the deprecation plan?

I meant that, Is there any plan to deprecate `manually created secret-based tokens`in future?

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: > I'm confused here Shubham, what do you mean by the deprecation plan?
> 
> I meant that, Is there any plan to deprecate manually created secret-based tokensin future?

What about this one @shannonxtreme,

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Author: I do not think that there's a plan to deprecate this functionality as of right now. I'll implement Qimings suggestion. Thanks for reminding me about this one Shubham, when there's so many comments it's easy to miss one 😂

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: > I do not think that there's a plan to deprecate this functionality as of right now. I'll implement Qimings suggestion.

Yeah, sounds good.

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: > Thanks for reminding me about this one Shubham, when there's so many comments it's easy to miss

Welcome, I understand it.

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: > > IMO there is no current plan to deprecate manually created secret-based tokens
> 
> These are still supported. _Automatic_ generation is already deprecated: [kubernetes/enhancements#2799](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2799)

Thanks @sftim for it, so can we mention the feature gate that stops Automatic generation or service accounts? and also mention **manually created secret-based tokens** that no plan to remove in the future?

>     with static, long-lived credentials.

Reviewer 3: @shannonxtreme WDYT?

> ## Authenticating service account credentials

Reviewer: nit: I was confused by the title into thinking this was describing how to validate credentials, but that's the next section. Maybe a title tweak like this:

```suggestion
## Authenticating using service account credentials
```

ServiceAccounts use signed
{{<glossary_tooltip term_id="jwt" text="JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)">}}

> to authenticate to the Kubernetes API, and to any other system where a trust

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server, and to any other system where a trust
```

Author: Done

relationship exists. Depending on the token issuer, a ServiceAccount token might
also have an expiry time, an audience, and a time after which the token *starts*
being valid. When a process running in a Pod attempts to communicate with the
Kubernetes API server, it adds an `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header to the
HTTP request. The API server checks the validity of the bearer token as follows:

> 1.   Check the token signature.
> 2.   Check whether the token has expired.
> 3.   Check whether the token is currently valid.
> 4.   Check the audience claims.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Check the token signature.
2. Check whether the token has expired.
3. Check whether the token is currently valid.
4. Check the audience claims.
```

Author: Done (and fixed markdown numbering)

For tokens issued using the `TokenRequest` API, the API server also checks that
the Pod using the ServiceAccount still exists. For legacy tokens that are
mounted as Secrets in Pods, the API server checks the token against the Secret.

For more information about the authentication process, refer to

> [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens).
```

Author: Done

### Authenticating service account credentials in your own code

If you have services of your own that need to validate Kubernetes service
account credentials, you can use the following methods:

> *   [TokenReview API](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-review-v1/)
>     (recommended)
> *   OIDC discovery

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* [TokenReview API](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-review-v1/)
  (recommended)
* OIDC discovery
```

Author: Done

The Kubernetes project recommends that you use the TokenReview API, because this
method invalidates tokens that are bound to API objects such as Secrets,
ServiceAccounts, and Pods when those objects are deleted. For example, if you
delete the Pod that contains a projected ServiceAccount token, the TokenReview
API invalidates that token immediately. If you use OIDC validation instead, your
clients continue to treat the token as valid until the token reaches its
expiration timestamp.

## Alternatives

> *   Issue your own tokens using another mechanism, and then use
>     [Webhook Token Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication)
>     to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
> *   Provide your own identities to Pods.
>     *   [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).
>     *   [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).
> *   Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
>     *   [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
>     *   Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
>         and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
>         authenticate to your cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Issue your own tokens using another mechanism, and then use
  [Webhook Token Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication)
  to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
* Provide your own identities to Pods.
  * [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).
  * [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).
* Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
  * [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
  * Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
    and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
    authenticate to your cluster.
```

Author: Done

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> *   [Learn how to manage your ServiceAccounts as a cluster administrator](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/).
> *   [Learn how to assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
> *   [Read the ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Learn how to [manage your ServiceAccounts as a cluster administrator](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/).
* Learn how to [assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
* Read [the ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).
```

Author: Done

Author: Actually done

---
title: Service Accounts
description: >
  Learn about the Kubernetes ServiceAccount object.
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This page introduces the ServiceAccount object in Kubernetes, providing
information about how service accounts work, use cases, limitations,
alternatives, and links to resources for additional guidance.

<!-- body -->

## What are service accounts? {#what-are-service-accounts}

A service account is a type of non-human account that, in Kubernetes, provides
an identity for the processes that run in Pods. Pods can use service accounts
to make calls to the Kubernetes API server. Service accounts exist as
ServiceAccount objects in the API server. Service accounts have the following
properties:

*  **Namespaced:** Each service account is bound to a Kubernetes
   {{<glossary_tooltip text="namespace" term_id="namespace">}}. Every namespace

>    gets a `default` ServiceAccount upon creation.

Reviewer 2: _optional_
```suggestion
   gets a [`default` ServiceAccount](#default-service-account) upon creation.
```

Author: Done

*  **Lightweight:** Service accounts exist in the cluster and use the structure
   defined in the Kubernetes API. You can quickly create service accounts to
   enable specific tasks.

*  **Portable:** A configuration bundle for a complex containerized workload
   might include service account definitions for the system's components. The
   lightweight nature of service accounts and the namespaced identities make
   the configurations portable.

Service accounts are different from user accounts, which are authenticated
human users in the cluster. User accounts don't exist in the Kubernetes API
server; instead, the API server treats user identities as opaque data. You can
authenticate as a user account using multiple methods.

> 

Reviewer 2: Optional note: some Kubernetes distributions / platforms add a custom, extension API that _does_ represent users.

Author: Done

object named `default` for every namespace in your cluster. The `default`
service accounts in each namespace get no permissions other than the
[default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)
that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated accounts. If you delete the default
ServiceAccount object in a namespace, the {{<glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane">}}
replaces it with a new one.

If you deploy a Pod in a namespace, and you don't manually assign a
ServiceAccount object to the Pod, Kubernetes assigns the `default` service
account for that namespace to the Pod. You can change this behavior by setting
the `automountServiceAccountToken` field in your Pod specification to `false`.

## Use cases for Kubernetes service accounts {#use-cases}

As a general guideline, you can use service accounts to provide identities in
the following scenarios:

* Your Pods need to communicate with the Kubernetes API server, for example in
  situations such as the following:
  *  Providing read-only access to sensitive information stored in Secrets.

>   *  Granting [cross-namespace access](TODO), such as allowing a Pod in namespace

Reviewer 2: Highlighting a **TODO**

Author: Resolved, thank you

     `example` to read, list, and watch for Lease objects in the
     `kube-node-lease` namespace.
* Your Pods need to communicate with an external service. For example,

>   [Authenticating to a private image registry using an `imagePullSecret`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#add-imagepullsecrets-to-a-service-account).

Author: Done

* An external service needs to communicate with the Kubernetes API server. For
  example, authenticating to the cluster as part of a CI/CD pipeline.

> 

Reviewer 2: _optional_
```suggestion
* You use third-party security software in your Kubernetes cluster. The third-party software
  relies on the ServiceAccount identity of different Pods to group those Pods into different
  contexts.

```
[example](https://projectcalico.docs.tigera.io/security/service-accounts)

Author: Done (didnt link to example)

Reviewer 2: Ah, the example was just for context, not to link to. Thanks. All good here.

## How to use service accounts {#how-to-use}

To use a Kubernetes service account, you do the following:

1. Create the ServiceAccount object in the Kubernetes API using a Kubernetes
   client like `kubectl` or a manifest that defines the object.
1. Grant permissions to the ServiceAccount object using an authorization

>    mechanism such as RBAC.

Reviewer 2: _optional_
```suggestion
   mechanism such as [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).
```

Author: Done

You can use RBAC to allow service accounts in one namespace to perform actions
on resources in a different namespace in the cluster. For example, consider a
scenario where you have a service account and Pod in the `dev` namespace and
you want your Pod to see Jobs running in the `batch` namespace. You could
create a Role object that grants permissions to list Job objects. Then,
you'd create a RoleBinding object in the `batch` namespace to bind the Role
to the ServiceAccount object. Now, Pods in the `dev` namespace can list Job
objects in the `batch` namespace using that service account.

### Assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod {#assign-to-pod}

To assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod, you set the `spec.serviceAccountName`
field in the Pod specification. Kubernetes then automatically provides the
credentials for that ServiceAccount to the Pod. In v1.22 and later, Kubernetes
gets a short-lived, automatically rotating token using the `TokenRequest` API
and mounts the token as a
[projected volume](/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes/#serviceaccounttoken).
In versions earlier than 1.22, Kubernetes provides a long-lived, static token
to the Pod as a Secret.

> 

Reviewer 2: _optional_
```suggestion

<!-- OK to remove this historical detail once Kubernetes 1.31 is released -->

```

because eventually we should assume people are running something vaguely close to being supported.
(IMO, it's fair to impose costs on people who are 6 minor releases out of support).

Author: Done and +1

following methods:

* [TokenRequest API](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/)
  (recommended): Request a short-lived service account token using your
  *application code*. The token expires automatically and can rotate upon
  expiration.
* [Token Volume Projection](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection)
  (recommended): In Kubernetes v1.20 and later, use the Pod specification to
  tell the kubelet to add the service account token to the Pod as a
  *projected volume*. Projected tokens expire automatically, and the kubelet
  rotates the token before it expires.
* [Service Account Token Secrets](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#manually-create-a-service-account-api-token)
  (not recommended): You can mount service account tokens as Kubernetes
  Secrets in Pods. These tokens don't expire and don't rotate. This method
  is not recommended, especially at scale, because of the risks associated
  with static, long-lived credentials.

## Authenticating service account credentials {#authenticating-credentials}

ServiceAccounts use signed

> {{<glossary_tooltip term_id="jwt" text="JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)">}}

Reviewer 2: I prefer
```suggestion
{{<glossary_tooltip term_id="jwt" text="JSON Web Tokens">}} (JWTs)
```
but not enough to insist on it.

to authenticate to the Kubernetes API, and to any other system where a trust
relationship exists. Depending on the token issuer, a ServiceAccount token might
also have an expiry time, an audience, and a time after which the token *starts*
being valid. When a process running in a Pod attempts to communicate with the
Kubernetes API server, it adds an `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header to the
HTTP request. The API server checks the validity of the bearer token as follows:

1. Check the token signature.
1. Check whether the token has expired.
1. Check whether the token is currently valid.
1. Check the audience claims.

For tokens issued using the `TokenRequest` API, the API server also checks that

> the Pod using the ServiceAccount still exists. For legacy tokens that are

Author: Done

clients continue to treat the token as valid until the token reaches its
expiration timestamp.

## Alternatives

*   Issue your own tokens using another mechanism, and then use
    [Webhook Token Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication)
    to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
*   Provide your own identities to Pods.
    *   [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).
    *   [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).
*   Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
    *   [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
    *   Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
        and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
        authenticate to your cluster.

> 

Author: Done

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

*   [Learn how to manage your ServiceAccounts as a cluster administrator](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/).
*   [Learn how to assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).

> *   [Read the ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).

Reviewer 2: Further optional tweak:
```suggestion
* Read the [ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).
```

Author: Ack this

  to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
* Provide your own identities to Pods.
    * [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).
    * [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).
* Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
    * [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
    * Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
      and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
      authenticate to your cluster.
    * [Configure the kubelet to retrieve credentials from an image registry](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/).
    * Use a Device Plugin to access a TPM that allows authentication using
      a private key.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> *   Learn how to [manage your ServiceAccounts as a cluster administrator](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/).
> *   Learn how to [assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
> *   Read the [ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).

Reviewer 2: OK, but ideally:
```suggestion
* Learn how to [manage your ServiceAccounts as a cluster administrator](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/).
* Learn how to [assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
* Read the [ServiceAccount API reference](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/).
```

Author: Done

You can use the built-in Kubernetes
[role-based access control (RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
mechanism to grant the minimum permissions required by each service account.
You create a *role*, which grants access, and then *bind* the role to your
ServiceAccount. RBAC lets you define a minimum set of permissions so that the
service account permissions follow the principle of least privilege. Pods that
use that service account don't get more permissions than are required to
function correctly.

#### Cross-namespace access using a ServiceAccount {#cross-namespace}

You can use RBAC to allow service accounts in one namespace to perform actions
on resources in a different namespace in the cluster. For example, consider a
scenario where you have a service account and Pod in the `dev` namespace and
you want your Pod to see Jobs running in the `maintenance` namespace. You could
create a Role object that grants permissions to list Job objects. Then,
you'd create a RoleBinding object in the `maintenance` namespace to bind the
Role to the ServiceAccount object. Now, Pods in the `dev` namespace can list
Job objects in the `maintenance` namespace using that service account.

> 

Reviewer 2: :thought_balloon: 

_Doesn't_ block this PR, but you can also allow one ServiceAccount to impersonate another, so there are two options here.

Reviewer 5: Impersonation is always possible, the current documented process appears cleaner to me since you're granting the access explicitly, rather than inheriting ALL the access of the other SA.

Author: Let's be prescriptive and document the approach that's "better" from us

clients continue to treat the token as valid until the token reaches its
expiration timestamp.

## Alternatives

* Issue your own tokens using another mechanism, and then use
  [Webhook Token Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication)
  to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
* Provide your own identities to Pods.
    * [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).
    * [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).
* Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
    * [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
    * Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
      and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
      authenticate to your cluster.

>     * [Configure the kubelet to retrieve credentials from an image registry](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/).
>     * Use a Device Plugin to access a TPM that allows authentication using
>       a private key.

Reviewer 2: Wording tweak combined with whitespace / list item depth fix.
```suggestion
* [Configure the kubelet to retrieve credentials from an image registry](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/).
* Use a Device Plugin to access a virtual Trusted Platform Module (TPM), that then allows a Pod to authenticate
  using a private key.
```

Author: Done

---
title: Service Accounts
description: >
  Learn about the Kubernetes ServiceAccount object.
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This page introduces the ServiceAccount object in Kubernetes, providing
information about how service accounts work, use cases, limitations,
alternatives, and links to resources for additional guidance.

<!-- body -->

## What are service accounts? {#what-are-service-accounts}

A service account is a type of non-human account that, in Kubernetes, provides
a distinct identity in a Kubernetes cluster. Application Pods, system
components, and entities inside and outside the cluster can use a specific
ServiceAccount's credentials to identify as that ServiceAccount. This identity
is useful in various situations, including authenticating to the API server or

> implementing identity-based security policies.

Reviewer 2: I'm happy with this - enough detail not to mislead, concise enough that the reader ought to be comfortable continuing with the rest of the page.

title: Service Accounts
description: >
  Learn about the Kubernetes ServiceAccount object.
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This page introduces the ServiceAccount object in Kubernetes, providing
information about how service accounts work, use cases, limitations,
alternatives, and links to resources for additional guidance.

<!-- body -->

## What are service accounts? {#what-are-service-accounts}

A service account is a type of non-human account that, in Kubernetes, provides
a distinct identity in a Kubernetes cluster. Application Pods, system
components, and entities inside and outside the cluster can use a specific
ServiceAccount's credentials to identify as that ServiceAccount. This identity
is useful in various situations, including authenticating to the API server or
implementing identity-based security policies.

Service accounts exist as ServiceAccount objects in the API server. Service
accounts have the following properties:

*  **Namespaced:** Each service account is bound to a Kubernetes
   {{<glossary_tooltip text="namespace" term_id="namespace">}}. Every namespace
   gets a [`default` ServiceAccount](#default-service-account) upon creation.

> *  **Lightweight:** Service accounts exist in the cluster and use the structure

Author: It's supposed to mean that it's defined in the Kubernetes API. I reworded to "and are defined in the Kubernetes API"

   defined in the Kubernetes API. You can quickly create service accounts to
   enable specific tasks.

*  **Portable:** A configuration bundle for a complex containerized workload
   might include service account definitions for the system's components. The
   lightweight nature of service accounts and the namespaced identities make
   the configurations portable.

Service accounts are different from user accounts, which are authenticated
human users in the cluster. By default, user accounts don't exist in the Kubernetes API server; instead, the API server treats user identities as opaque
data. You can authenticate as a user account using multiple methods. Some
Kubernetes distributions might add custom extension APIs to represent user
accounts in the API server.

{{< table caption="Comparison between service accounts and users" >}}

| Description | ServiceAccount | User or group |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Location | Kubernetes API (ServiceAccount object) | External |

> | Scope | Namespace | Cluster |

Author: Let's remove this row, I don't think that it works unless I change Scope to something that means "Location of original object" which is not a valuable bit of info at this stage

> | Scope | Namespace | Cluster |

Author: Let's remove this row, I don't think that it works unless I change Scope to something that means "Location of original object" which is not a valuable bit of info at this stage

| Access control | Kubernetes RBAC or other [authorization mechanisms](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#authorization-modules) | Kubernetes RBAC or other identity and access management mechanisms |

> | Intended use | Pods | People |

Reviewer 2: “Services” might make readers thing about the kind of Service that manages EndpointSlices, so let's avoid that too.

Maybe “apps” or “code”?

> | Intended use | Pods | People |

Reviewer 5: Yes, I was wondering whether there would be a better way to describe it. I think "Apps" or "Applications"  would be the most fitting.

> | Intended use | Pods | People |

Reviewer 2: I'd go for:
```markdown
| Intended use | Pods, automation | people |
```

so that the initial caps helps to mark out API kinds

> | Intended use | Pods | People |

Author: Workloads?

> | Intended use | Pods | People |

Author: In this table I dont think the caps differentiation is needed for People, it's a different column. Lets go with "Workloads, automation" and "People"

I don't know if "Automation" without expanding on what is being automated makes things less clear though

{{< /table >}}

### Default service accounts {#default-service-accounts}

When you create a cluster, Kubernetes automatically creates a ServiceAccount
object named `default` for every namespace in your cluster. The `default`
service accounts in each namespace get no permissions by default other than the

> [default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

Reviewer 2: We should try to be slightly neutral about how `system:authenticated` gets permissions (it could be RBAC, it could be another mechanism).

> [default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

Author: Since RBAC is the "built-in" mechanism, I don't have an issue with changing the link to the suggestion. @sftim let me know which you think is better for here

> [default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

Reviewer 2: RBAC is in-tree but is not part of what we consider as _certified Kubernetes_.

> [default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

Author: ```suggestion
[default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)
```

that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated accounts using an access control
mechanism such as role-based access control (RBAC).

> [default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

Author: Implemented Tim's with minor tweaks

that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated accounts. If you delete the
`default` ServiceAccount object in a namespace, the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane">}}
replaces it with a new one.

If you deploy a Pod in a namespace, and you don't manually assign a
ServiceAccount object to the Pod, Kubernetes assigns the `default` service
account for that namespace to the Pod and provides the credentials for that

> ServiceAccount to the Pod. To prevent Kubernetes from automatically providing
> credentials for the `default` ServiceAccount, set the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ServiceAccount to the Pod. To prevent Kubernetes from automatically injecting
credentials for the configured ServiceAccount into the Pod, set the
```

Author: I reworded this paragraph to make more sense. It originally focused only on the default account, so talking suddenly about configured accounts would have been confusing. PTAL and resolve if ok with you

> `automountServiceAccountToken` field in your Pod specification to `false`.

Author: I reworded this paragraph to make more sense. It originally focused only on the default account, so talking suddenly about configured accounts would have been confusing. PTAL and resolve if ok with you

## Use cases for Kubernetes service accounts {#use-cases}

As a general guideline, you can use service accounts to provide identities in
the following scenarios:

* Your Pods need to communicate with the Kubernetes API server, for example in
  situations such as the following:
  *  Providing read-only access to sensitive information stored in Secrets.
  *  Granting [cross-namespace access](#cross-namespace), such as allowing a
     Pod in namespace `example` to read, list, and watch for Lease objects in
     the `kube-node-lease` namespace.
* Your Pods need to communicate with an external service. For example, a
  workload Pod requires an identity for a commercially available cloud API,

>   and the commercial provider allows configuring a suitable trust relationship.

Reviewer 5: This might be a good place to refer to SA token audiences

Reviewer 2: OK, but IMO not having it here shouldn't block approval. The perfect is the enemy of the published.

Author: I understand the idea but we currently dont have a lot of info in our docs about audiences...I'd like to see better info to link to from here, expanding on https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#serviceaccount-token-volume-projection

WDYT?

Reviewer 5: I think we might often be relying on the readers knowledge of how audiences work, as described in https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDTokenValidation

I added a proposal in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/38289/files#r1099997580 which I think might suffice for this new documentation

Author: Done

* [Authenticating to a private image registry using an `imagePullSecret`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#add-imagepullsecrets-to-a-service-account).
* An external service needs to communicate with the Kubernetes API server. For
  example, authenticating to the cluster as part of a CI/CD pipeline.
* You use third-party security software in your cluster that relies on the
  ServiceAccount identity of different Pods to group those Pods into different

>   contexts.

Reviewer 5: or perhaps it might be worth mentioning the audiences here?

Reviewer 2: I'd be very happy to see a follow-up PR (or more than one) that polishes this page.

Right now we're looking at what's minimum viable to allow a merge.

Author: Yes, let's work towards a solid foundation on which we can build and expand. Im more than happy to collab on followups

Author: Done because we used @stlaz suggestion for audiences in the 3p section

## How to use service accounts {#how-to-use}

To use a Kubernetes service account, you do the following:

1. Create a ServiceAccount object using a Kubernetes
   client like `kubectl` or a manifest that defines the object.
1. Grant permissions to the ServiceAccount object using an authorization
   mechanism such as
   [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

> 1. Assign the ServiceAccount object to Pods during Pod creation.

Reviewer 5: 3b. retrieve the ServiceAccount token and use it from an external service

Author: DOne

For instructions, refer to
[Configure Service Accounts for Pods](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).

### Grant permissions to a ServiceAccount {#grant-permissions}

You can use the built-in Kubernetes
[role-based access control (RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
mechanism to grant the minimum permissions required by each service account.
You create a *role*, which grants access, and then *bind* the role to your
ServiceAccount. RBAC lets you define a minimum set of permissions so that the
service account permissions follow the principle of least privilege. Pods that
use that service account don't get more permissions than are required to

> function correctly.

Reviewer 5: This might also be a good place to add the reference from earlier: `/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions`

Author: Done

#### Cross-namespace access using a ServiceAccount {#cross-namespace}

You can use RBAC to allow service accounts in one namespace to perform actions
on resources in a different namespace in the cluster. For example, consider a
scenario where you have a service account and Pod in the `dev` namespace and
you want your Pod to see Jobs running in the `maintenance` namespace. You could
create a Role object that grants permissions to list Job objects. Then,
you'd create a RoleBinding object in the `maintenance` namespace to bind the
Role to the ServiceAccount object. Now, Pods in the `dev` namespace can list
Job objects in the `maintenance` namespace using that service account.

### Assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod {#assign-to-pod}

To assign a ServiceAccount to a Pod, you set the `spec.serviceAccountName`
field in the Pod specification. Kubernetes then automatically provides the
credentials for that ServiceAccount to the Pod. In v1.22 and later, Kubernetes

> gets a short-lived, automatically rotating token using the `TokenRequest` API

Reviewer 5: It might make sense to highlight the `automatically rotating` here to outline that the workload must consider changes in the token file.

Author: Done

* [Token Volume Projection](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection)
  (recommended): In Kubernetes v1.20 and later, use the Pod specification to
  tell the kubelet to add the service account token to the Pod as a
  *projected volume*. Projected tokens expire automatically, and the kubelet
  rotates the token before it expires. The ServiceAccount token is also
  invalidated in the Kubernetes API when the Pod or the ServiceAccount is
  deleted.
* [Service Account Token Secrets](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#manually-create-a-service-account-api-token)
  (not recommended): You can mount service account tokens as Kubernetes
  Secrets in Pods. These tokens don't expire and don't rotate. This method
  is not recommended, especially at scale, because of the risks associated
  with static, long-lived credentials. In Kubernetes v1.24 and later, the
  [LegacyServiceAccountTokenNoAutoGeneration feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates-for-graduated-or-deprecated-features)
  prevents Kubernetes from automatically creating these tokens for

>   ServiceAccounts.

Reviewer 5: should we mention `kubectl create token` here, or update any of the linked docs?

Reviewer 2: IMO: that can happen in a follow up PR.

Reviewer 5: That's fair.

I should just add that if we wanted to keep it in this doc, the right place would be around the TokenRequest API as that's used as the backend for the command.

Author: Ack, thank you

## Authenticating service account credentials {#authenticating-credentials}

ServiceAccounts use signed
{{<glossary_tooltip term_id="jwt" text="JSON Web Tokens">}}  (JWTs)
to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server, and to any other system where a

> trust relationship exists. Depending on the token issuer, a ServiceAccount

Reviewer 5: Isn't the kube-apiserver the only available issuer today? Is there a scenario where any of the following claims would be missing?

Reviewer: Yeah, this depends less on the issuer and more on the type of token. Secret-based non-expiring tokens don't have an expiry or audience claim, new time-bound tokens do.

Author: Is there something to document here about that? Seems like a legacy behavior at this point

Reviewer 5: We may want to distinguish based on the type of the token rather than the issuer, something like
```suggestion
trust relationship exists. Depending on how the token was issued (legacy, secret-based token or the newer time-based), a ServiceAccount
```

Reviewer 2: Tip: list the current mechanism first:
```suggestion
trust relationship exists. Depending on how the token was issued (either time-limited using
a [TokenRequest](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/),
or the legacy mechanism using a Secret), a ServiceAccount
```

Reviewer: @sftim's edit lgtm

Author: Done

> token might also have an expiry time, an audience, and a time after which the

Author: @stlaz we do mention audience here FYI

token *starts* being valid. When a process running in a Pod attempts to
communicate with the Kubernetes API server, it adds an
`Authorization: Bearer <token>` header to the HTTP request. The API server
checks the validity of the bearer token as follows:

1. Check the token signature.
1. Check whether the token has expired.

> 1. Check whether the token is currently valid.

Reviewer 5: This is rather vague, all the other points are a also a check that the token is currently valid. Did you mean any specific check?

Tokens can  be (and very often are) bound to a certain API object. We may want to mention that check here, too.

Reviewer 2: What are the checks that are actually appropriate @stlaz? That information will help @shannonxtreme tweak the doc.

Reviewer 5: I see only Pod and Secret are currenly allowed to be referenced.

The code for this specific authentication lives in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/8a72f059997c548c5432980682f50ac7bfa036ae/pkg/serviceaccount/jwt.go#L262

along with the validator in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/8a72f059997c548c5432980682f50ac7bfa036ae/pkg/serviceaccount/claims.go#L111

Reviewer: I would hesitate to enumerate all the "token is currently valid" checks the API server does here in a way that encourages other parties to replicate those checks outside the API server, but something like "Checks whether object references in the token claims are still valid" could work

Author: Added this suggestion

1. Check the audience claims.

For tokens issued using the `TokenRequest` API, the API server also checks that

> the specific Pod using the ServiceAccount still exists, matching by the

Reviewer 5: I see, the bound object is mentioned here. The bound object API of the token is not limited to pods only - https://kubernetes.io//docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/#TokenRequestSpec

Author: I added Jordan's suggestion "Checks whether object references in the token claims are still valid". And changed Pod in the following paragraph to "referenced object"

{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="uid" text="unique ID" >}} of that Pod. For legacy
tokens that are mounted as Secrets in Pods, the API server checks the token
against the Secret.

For more information about the authentication process, refer to
[Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens).

> ### Authenticating service account credentials in your own code {authenticating-in-code}

Reviewer 5: This section definitely should mention token audiences.

Author: Could you suggest a line or two? We want them to specify intended audiences for tokens obtained using TokenRequest so that the token authenticator can validate that the recipient is in the list of audiences/

Reviewer 2: Wrapped, that becomes
```markdown
Your application should always define its own audience that it is going to accept, and it should
check that the token's audiences match the audiences the application expects. This is to help
minimize the scope of the token, making it only usable in your application and nowhere else.
```

Author: Done

account credentials, you can use the following methods:

* [TokenReview API](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-review-v1/)
  (recommended)
* OIDC discovery

The Kubernetes project recommends that you use the TokenReview API, because this
method invalidates tokens that are bound to API objects such as Secrets,
ServiceAccounts, and Pods when those objects are deleted. For example, if you
delete the Pod that contains a projected ServiceAccount token, the TokenReview
API invalidates that token immediately. If you use OIDC validation instead, your
clients continue to treat the token as valid until the token reaches its
expiration timestamp.

## Alternatives

* Issue your own tokens using another mechanism, and then use
  [Webhook Token Authentication](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication)
  to validate bearer tokens using your own validation service.
* Provide your own identities to Pods.
    * [Use the SPIFFE CSI driver plugin to provide SPIFFE SVIDs as X.509 certificate pairs to Pods](https://cert-manager.io/docs/projects/csi-driver-spiffe/).

>     * [Use a service mesh such as Istio to provide certificates to Pods](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/plugin-ca-cert/).

Reviewer 5: is it ok to mention 3rd parties here?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is. We should use a thirty party content shortcode to mark that we're doing so.

Author: Done

* Authenticate from outside the cluster to the API server without using service account tokens:
    * [Configure the API server to accept OpenID Connect (OIDC) tokens from your identity provider](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens).
    * Use service accounts or user accounts created using an external Identity
      and Access Management (IAM) service, such as from a cloud provider, to
      authenticate to your cluster.
* [Configure the kubelet to retrieve credentials from an image registry](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/).

> * Use a Device Plugin to access a virtual Trusted Platform Module (TPM), which

Reviewer 5: no references here?

Reviewer 2: That's OK.

Reviewer 5: Could we please at least link https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/ ? I was not aware of it before.

>   then allows authentication using a private key.

Reviewer 5: + CSR API with client certs, possibly?

Reviewer 2: OK, but IMO not having it here shouldn't block approval. The perfect is the enemy of the published.

Author: Added with a link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/

data. You can authenticate as a user account using multiple methods. Some
Kubernetes distributions might add custom extension APIs to represent user
accounts in the API server.

{{< table caption="Comparison between service accounts and users" >}}

| Description | ServiceAccount | User or group |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Location | Kubernetes API (ServiceAccount object) | External |
| Access control | Kubernetes RBAC or other [authorization mechanisms](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#authorization-modules) | Kubernetes RBAC or other identity and access management mechanisms |
| Intended use | Workloads, automation | People |

{{< /table >}}

### Default service accounts {#default-service-accounts}

When you create a cluster, Kubernetes automatically creates a ServiceAccount
object named `default` for every namespace in your cluster. The `default`
service accounts in each namespace get no permissions by default other than the
[default API discovery permissions](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions)

> that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated accounts. If you delete the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that Kubernetes grants to all authenticated principals whenever Kubernetes RBAC is
enabled. If you delete the
```
maybe?

Author: Went with "to all authenticated principals if RBAC is enabled.

Author: Done

`default` ServiceAccount object in a namespace, the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane">}}
replaces it with a new one.

If you deploy a Pod in a namespace, and you don't manually assign a
ServiceAccount object to the Pod, Kubernetes assigns the `default` service
account for that namespace to the Pod. By default, Kubernetes provides the Pod
with the credentials for an assigned ServiceAccount, whether that is the
`default` ServiceAccount or a custom ServiceAccount that you specify. 

To prevent Kubernetes from automatically injecting
credentials for a specified ServiceAccount or the `default` ServiceAccount, set the

> `automountServiceAccountToken` field in your Pod specification to `false`.

Author: done
